# ResNet50-camouflage-detector
Transfer learning to detect general camouflaged objects in images, using ResNet50 pre-trained on ImageNet

In short: we chop off the fully connected head, and train a new FC head on top. The purpose is to classify images into two categories: those with a camouflaged object (animal, person, pretty much anything utilizing camouflage to hide against the background), and those without a camouflaged object in the image. The CAMO-COCO dataset (https://sites.google.com/site/vantam/camo-1) was used for training, with a test-validation split as defined in config.py. I didn't use the segmentation masks provided in the dataset, so you have to delete those/move them elsewhere after downloading so they don't interfere with the model training.

To train the model, download the CAMO-COCO dataset, first copy it into the program directory. Since the dataset_builder.py assumes a certain format, organize the folder as follows: "CAMO-COCO-1.0-DATA/Camouflage" should contain all camouflage images (no matter whether originally test or train images), and "CAMO-COCO-1.0-DATA/Non-Camouflage" should likewise contain all non-camouflage images. Then run dataset_builder.py to create a nicely organized directory of the training and validation split which will later be used in training. You may need to change the ORIG_INPUT_DATASET value in config.py to the name of the folder containing the original dataset (in my case it was CAMO-COCO-1.0-DATA).

The obtained result (accuracy and loss) metrics over epochs are depicted in progress.png. The results (and what looks like overfitting) might be improved via e.g. regularization, dropout, random shuffling of images before doing the test/train/val split; working on it!
